**Contact:** [Jurgen
Willems](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Jurgen_Willems "ResearchGate: Jurgen Willems"),
Universität Hamburg, Von-Melle-Park 9, 20146 Hamburg, Germany, GitHub:
[@MrJurgenWillems](https://github.com/MrJurgenWillems "GitHub: Jurgen Willems"),
Twitter:
[@MrJurgenWillems](https://twitter.com/MrJurgenWillems "Twitter: Jurgen Willems")

Introduction
============

\[@ \]

This Habilitation dissertation combines eleven published articles for
which the overall content relates to three interrelated concepts:
leadership, performance, and reputation. Hence, this Habilitation
contributes to the field of management by further exploring these
concepts and investigating how they relate to each other. Each of the
studies aims at bringing a substantial contribution to the field of
management research, both from a scientific and a practice perspective.
In the subsequent section, I shortly introduce these concepts, and I
clarify the academic contributions made by this Habilitation for these
three concepts.

The empirical analyses of the studies are situated in the context of
nonprofit and public organizations. In this synopsis, I further explain
how the public and nonprofit sectors form the unique setting to study
these three management concepts. Studying these concepts in the
nonprofit and public context has at least two major advantages. First,
more sector specific recommendations can be made, taking much more their
particularities into account. Second, the generalizability of managerial
theories are scrutinized for this specific context. In other words, many
managerial frameworks and theoretical perspectives are developed for the
for-profit business context and by studying them in an alternative
context where profit is not the (main) goal, makes it possible to
scrutinize their general applicability. I explain this in more detail in
the section The public and nonprofit sectors as scientific field.

In the section Overview of studies and contribution to the literature, I
give an overview of the eleven studies in this Habilitation, and I
explain how each of them contributes to the field of management
research, and to public and nonprofit research in particular. The
combination of studies includes a variety of theoretical perspectives,
research methods, and study contexts. As a result, with this cumulative
Habilitation I aim at fulfilling the prerequisite of a broad
contribution to the management research field.

Defining Leadership, Performance, and Reputation
================================================

Leadership is widely studied in the field of management and can be
defined as “\[. . . \] the ability of an individual to influence,
motivate, and enable others to contribute toward the effectiveness and
success of the organizations of which they are members“ (House et al.
2002 , p5) (p5). Several studies in this Habilitation focus on dynamics
in leadership teams. Consequently, a leadership team is the group of
individuals that is actively involved in the strategic decision-making
and in the main governance processes of an organization. The studies in
this Habilitation contribute to the literature by exploring how dynamics
within leadership teams have an influence on the other related concepts:
performance and reputation. On the one hand, the articles focus on the
concept of shared mental models in leadership teams and how they related
to perceptions of organizational performance. On the other hand, some
studies contribute to the literature by investigating power structures
within leadership teams, building on the notion of dominant coalitions
in organizational governance.

Organizational performance can be defined as the extent that an
organization achieves it goals. However, organizational goals can be
very diverse and context specific, and therefore many different forms of
performance can be distinguished within this overall and abstract
concept. For instance, when performance is hard to measure, subjective,
and multi-dimensional – as it is the case for many public and nonprofit
organizations (Herman and Renz 1999, Herman and Renz (2008), Lecy,
Schmitz, and Swedlund (2012), Jun and Shiau (2012)) – stakeholders’
subjective perceptions and opinions on performance play a major role.
This means that organizational performance is equal to its external
reputation and is thus highly determined by the various opinions held by
numerous stakeholders. Therefore, one of the articles of this
Habilitation gives an in-depth theoretical exploration of the
methodological trade-offs to make when operationalizing performance
measures. Other studies in this Habilitation build on these trade-offs
to further explore reputational dynamics among organizational
stakeholders.

Reputation is defined as accumulated perceptions that stakeholders have
on an organization’s capacity to create value (Fombrun and Shanley 1990,
Rindova et al. (2006), Rindova et al. (2005)) , and it can enhance
stakeholder trust and their willingness to engage with the organization
(Austin, Stevenson, and Wei‐Skillern 2006). The specific component of
this overall perception that focuses on performance of an organization
is performance reputation (Willems, Jegers, and Faulk 2016). On the
intersection of performance and reputation, the articles in this
cumulative Habilitation contribute to the literature by clarifying
various factors that influence reputation and perceived performance.

The public and nonprofit sectors as scientific field
====================================================

Theory development and validation in the management research literature
has still too often inherent assumptions embedded that are typical for
for-profit business organizations and that cannot always be generalized
for all types of organizations, including public and nonprofit
organizations (Balser and McClusky 2005, Cornforth (2011), Morris et al.
(2007)). Despite the fact that a multitude of such un-generalizable
assumptions could be listed and elaborated, I focus for the purpose of
this synopsis on the embedded assumptions of primary stakeholders. In
short, due to the unique and clear goal of for-profit organizations,
which is primarily profit making to distribute it to the organization’s
owners, it is possible to distinguish two primary stakeholder types in
the context of for-profit organizations. These stakeholder types can be
classified as ‘primary’ due to their substantial and powerful role in
the organizational value creation processes. These two primary
stakeholder types in the for-profit context are (1) the organization’s
owners, who invest capital in the organization, but expect a return on
investment; and (2) the organization’s customers, who are willing to pay
a profit margin for the added value of the organization’s products or
services. These two types of stakeholders are the primary stakeholders
for many for-profit organizations as their decision processes determine
whether business remain to exist. This means, if for some reason owners
do not want to invest in the organization (anymore), or when the
customer does not see added values from its products and services, the
organization cannot reach its principal goal, and might stop to exist
over time. As a result, the success of many business-oriented theories
and practice recommendations can been traced back to their ability to
explain how return on investment for owners and/or added value for
customers is created and increased.

However, public and nonprofit organizations, which are (partially)
defined by the non-distribution constraint – which means that their
goals do not include the distribution of profit to owners (Hansmann
1987), do not have formal owners. Moreover, as their goals focus on
social, environmental and public aspects, the ones paying for the
organization’s services and products are seldom the ones benefiting from
it (Brooks 2003 ,Callen (1994) ,Foster, Kim, and Christiansen (2009)) .
As a result, many public and nonprofit organizations have no clear
one-on-one customer relationships with their stakeholders in which a
profit margin is exchanged for added value. In other words, even without
customers and formal owners, public and nonprofit organization can
remain to exist and even be very successful in achieving their specific
goals. However, the consequences are that (1) public and nonprofit
organizations often combine a broader variety of stakeholders, including
donors, beneficiaries, volunteers, members, employees, policy makers,
and citizens; and (2) that power relationships among these stakeholders
are often less hierarchical and one-directional compared to for-profit
organizations.

It are in particular these two consequences that make it challenging to
study concepts of leadership, performance, and reputation in the public
and nonprofit context. For example, board members in organizational
governance bodies, have not to the same extent the responsibility to
represent benefits of a single type of stakeholder. As a result, seminal
contributions have argued that theoretical models on for-profit board
leadership are to a varying extent applicable to public and nonprofit
settings (Parker 2007 , Cornforth (2011)). In contrast, their
responsibilities might be substantially broader, as they represent
different types of stakeholders (Van Puyvelde et al., 2012). Moreover,
as organizational goals of public and nonprofit organizations are not
profit-driven, pro-social aspect often play a major role. This means
that leadership decisions should also cover broader responsibilities
such as the management of volunteers, citizen participation, membership
relations, etc. Similarly, not all business theories that are successful
in explaining customer and (paid) employee behavior might to the same
extent be successful in explaining and managing stakeholder behaviors in
the public and nonprofit contexts.

The observation that the stakeholder range can be broader and more
lateral in public and nonprofit settings has also important consequences
on the study of public and nonprofit performance. In short, public and
nonprofit organizations combine a series of goals within their overall
mission that cover the various preferences of multiple stakeholder
types. As a result, several organizational goals might be complementary
to each other, but might also be traded of against each other when
scarce resources have to be allocated for the achievement of these goals
(Lecy, Schmitz, and Swedlund 2012 , Willems, Boenigk, and Jegers (2014))
. This multi-goal setting complicates in many cases public and nonprofit
performance. As different dimensions might have different importance for
different stakeholders, performance evaluations of public and nonprofit
organizations are very subjective. Moreover, as public and nonprofit
goals are often shared with other public and nonprofit organizations, it
is also difficult or impossible to clearly delineate the contribution of
each organization in social and public goal achievement. For example, it
the contexts of poverty reduction or environment protection it is
impossible to clearly quantify the unique contribution of a single
organization (Coleman Selden and Sowa 2004, Sowa, Selden, and Sandfort
(2004)) . Therefore, leadership in public and nonprofit is also strongly
focused on intra- and inter-sector collaborations to achieve such shared
goals. Hence, due to the high subjectivity and difficulty to quantify
public and nonprofit performance, the academic debate is still vivid on
what constitutes true public and nonprofit performance. In contrast, as
subjectivity and social constructionism are inherent for public and
nonprofit performance, reputation and perceptions are in many cases
substantially more important than true performance (Herman and Renz
2008, Willems, Boenigk, and Jegers (2014)) .

As a result, theoretical management models and practical recommendations
that are built tacitly or explicitly on owner or customer benefits,
might not work in public and nonprofit contexts where these
relationships are not primary. In other words, humans act differently in
many ways when they have the role of owner or customer in some contexts,
and the role of citizen, volunteer, or community member in other
contexts.

In sum, studying management concepts in the area of public and nonprofit
organizations has, at least in my opinion, two major benefits for the
derivation of practice recommendations on the one hand, and management
theory development on the other hand. First, there is a continuous need
to develop sector specific insights that explicitly take the uniqueness
of the public and nonprofit sectors into account. Practical
recommendations that are derived from theoretical models that work to
understand the roles we have as owner and customer, might not always to
the same extent work, or even work contra-productively, to understand
the roles we have as citizen, volunteer, members, etc. Therefore, an
explicit research focus on public and nonprofit organization and the
roles we have in relation to them, with sufficient attention to their
unique sectorial characteristics, can substantially help in formulating
practical recommendations that account for these characteristics.
Therefore, the articles in this habilitation contribute to the
literature by focusing on some of these specific stakeholder roles such
as citizens, members, volunteers, and patients.

Second, a stronger focus on the public and nonprofit organizations to
study management concepts can also advance the general management
research field from a scientific perspective. Many management science
theories and frameworks have to a varying extent assumptions embedded of
strong primary stakeholders. By actively questioning – both
theoretically and empirically – the applicability of this variety of
business-based insights in the alternative contexts of public and
nonprofit organizations, their true generalizability and robustness is
put to the test. This means that actively looking at managerial
challenges that occur specifically in public and nonprofit organization
cannot only result in more focused practical recommendation, it provides
the necessary sensitivity and robustness evaluation of the theoretical
lens that is taken.

Overview of studies and contribution to the literature
======================================================

The eleven articles of this cumulative Habilitation dissertation are
conceptually and methodologically related in the following way.

The link between leadership concepts and performance reputation
---------------------------------------------------------------

Articles 1, 2, and 3 contain three quantitative analyses of three
different survey databases, and each deals with an aspect of how
leadership and leadership team dynamics relate to perceptions on
organizational performance. Article 4 complements these studies in a
qualitative way by elaborating the power structures among leaders. More
explanation per article is given in the respective paragraphs below.

Article 1 (Willems 2016b) explores which governance practices nonprofit
leaders consider necessary to avoid organizational crises. Further, it
explores whether these leadership mental models of crisis resistance
depend on the organizational context. This helps determine whether
practical learning points are organization specific or can be applied
broadly to any kind of (nonprofit) organization. With a multilevel
sample of 304 leaders from 44 Belgian nongovernmental development
organizations, an exploratory path analysis reveals that nonprofit
leaders consider continuous improvement – as a governance practice –
particularly relevant for effective organizational crisis resistance. A
multilevel analysis also shows that variations in leadership mental
models cannot be explained by the organizational variables used in this
study (organizational size, leadership group size, operational
activities, and languages in the leadership group).

Article 2 (Willems 2016a), elaborates the insights from Article 1 by
exploring in more depth the concept of shared mental models among
leaders. Because shared mental models are critical for consistent,
accurate decision making, this study seeks to explain the extent to
which mental models are shared on the basis of team cognition theory and
social constructionism. This study thus provides new insights into how
the social dynamics among nonprofit leaders can explain mental models on
nonprofit performance (i.e. internal performance reputation).
Specifically, team member exchange (TMX) quality should relate to
agreement within leadership teams. Building on recent multilevel team
research methods, this study regards the relationship theoretically as a
separate actor and partner effect, which better reveals the underlying
social processes of shared mental models. With another multilevel data
sample of 402 leaders from 44 nonprofit organizations, this time not
limited to nongovernmental development organizations (See Article 1),
the hypotheses are tested. Confirmation of the hypotheses offers
insights into the multilevel, emergent nature of team behavior and
shared mental models.

Article 3 (Valéau, Willems, and Parak 2016) complements Articles 1 and 2
by incorporating individual motivations of volunteers and employees that
participate on the organizational decision processes. Using a multilevel
analysis including 207 volunteers and paid workers nested within 51
French nonprofit organizations from the French oversees Department La
Réunion, this study examines the effect of individual and group
attitudinal and behavioral commitment on their assessment of
organizational performance. Drawing on classical attitude theories, our
results indicate that individuals with higher affective organizational
commitment tend to assess their NPO’s effectiveness higher, while
individuals staying because of the lack of alternatives assess it lower.
However, in line with behavioral commitment theories, both relationships
are mediated by the effect of teamwork behavioral commitment. We also
found a negative effect of normative attitudinal commitment partially
nested at the group level. Overall, our results suggest that encouraging
volunteers and paid workers to participate in concrete teamwork
behaviors on a daily basis constitutes a twofold benefit: it adds to the
effect of affective attitudinal commitment at the individual level,
while counter balancing the negative effects related to normative
individual and collective resistances.

Article 4 (Willems et al. 2017) takes qualitative approach to leadership
dynamics by framing it in the organizational literature on dominant
coalitions in leadership teams. In doing so, we answer the call that
nonprofit governance research should focus more on processes outside the
boundaries of governance boards, especially for nonprofit organizations.
In particular, we suggest and elaborate concrete steps with respect to
the advantages of a leadership coalition perspective to focus more on
the behavioral and informal aspects of governance. Through a comparative
case analysis of five nonprofit organizations, we explore contingencies
between characteristics of nonprofit leadership coalitions and
governance quality. We identify two dimensions to classify leadership
coalitions: centralized versus diffused influence and specific versus
holistic influence. These dimensions are subsequently related with
observed governance quality. We frame our finding in the existing
literature on group faultlines, which are socially constructed dividing
lines within groups, and we discuss the importance of establishing a
balanced coalition between a weak or non-existing and a strong dominant
coalition to ensure high governance quality. We also present
propositions on how governance quality and its various sub-dimensions
can be studied as a complex, nonlinear intermediate concept between
coalitional aspects of leadership groups and nonprofit organizational
performance.

Further exploring and applying the concept of performance reputation
--------------------------------------------------------------------

Articles 5 to 7 focus on the perceptions that internal and external
stakeholders have on organizational performance and functionality.
Article 5 gives a theoretical overview of the choices to be made when
measuring nonprofit performance or perceptions about it. Articles 6 and
7 respectively elaborate concepts of stakeholder perceptions in the
hospital and (non-formal) educational sectors.

Article 5 (Willems, Boenigk, and Jegers 2014) presents seven trade-offs
for researchers and practitioners to consider before engaging in a
nonprofit performance measurement project. By presenting these seven
trade-offs, this theory-driven study complements contemporary
performance literature, which mainly offers theory-driven
recommendations for measuring nonprofit effectiveness, performance, or
related concepts. For each trade-off, we offer examples and suggestions
to clarify the advantages and disadvantages of methodological choices
that take various contextual elements into account. In particular, we
address the differences between formative and reflective approaches, as
well as the differences between unit of interest, unit of data
collection, and unit of analysis. These topics require more in-depth
attention in the nonprofit performance literature to avoid
misinterpretations and measurement biases. Finally, this article
concludes with five avenues for further research to help address key
challenges that remain in this research area.

Article 6 (Willems 2015) focuses on stakeholder perceptions for a
particular type of organizations. Non-formal education is often one of
the organizational goals of many public and nonprofit organizations, and
this study explores how the availability of resources for stakeholders
influences their perceptions on non-formal education. Hence, the aim of
this study is to explore the extent that country-level developmental
characteristics can explain perceived functionalities of local
non-formal education. A literature-based distinction is made between
participant functionality (inward focused) and societal functionality
(outward focuses) of non-formal education. An empirical test is
conducted for the international scouts and guides movement based on a
sample of 2,735 respondents from 68 countries. The results of a
multi-level regression analysis suggest a crowding-out relationship
between developmental capacity, quantified by the human development
index (HDI), and societal functionality. In contrast, participant
functionality remains constant despite differences between countries for
the HDI.

Article 7 (Willems and Ingerfurth 2018), similarly to Article 6 focuses
on stakeholder perceptions for a particular type of organizations.
However, this time the focus is on patients’ and employees’ perceptions
on hospital performance. To assess hospital performance, quality
perceptions of various stakeholders are increasingly taken into account.
However, because of substantial background differences, various
stakeholder groups might have different and even contrasting quality
perceptions. We test the hypothesis that an overall perception gap
exists between employees and patients with respect to perceived hospital
quality. We additionally elaborate on how various employee groups differ
from each other and from patients. We use primary survey data on
perceived hospital quality from 9,979 patients and 4,306 employees from
11 German hospitals. With a multilevel regression and variance analysis,
we test the impact of respondent type (employee or patient) on quality
perception scores and test the interaction with hospital size. We
additionally contrast different employee groups and test differences for
various quality dimensions. Hospital employees score hospital quality
consistently lower than patients and are also more heterogeneous in
their assessments. This makes it from a managerial point of view
relevant to subdivide employees in more homogeneous subgroups. Hospital
size has no clear effect on the perception gap. Doctors compared to
patients and other employee groups have substantially different
perceptions on hospital quality.

Further exploring specific challenges of the public and nonprofit sectors
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

As pointed out above, leadership and performance reputation are concepts
that need special attention in the nonprofit and public sectors. Along
with these challenges, these sectors are additionally typified by the
unique leadership challenges to manage collaborators inside the
organization, and to govern collaborations outside the organizations.
Within that context, Articles 8 and 9 elaborate on some specific
challenges of human resource leadership in the public and nonprofit
sectors, while Articles 10 and 11 elaborate on how organizational
performance (or performance reputation) is influenced by intra- and
inter sector collaborations.

Given the unique role of prosocial motivation and behavior in the public
and nonprofit sectors, in Article 8 (Willems and Walk 2013) we aim to
explore the relationship between volunteer motives and task preferences
in order to provide volunteer managers with better insight in how tasks
can be assigned to keep youth volunteers satisfied. Earlier seminal
contributions have either taken a pure functional approach – where
various types of motives are supposed to be at the base of any type of
volunteer work – or a differentiated approach, where particular motives
relate to specific task preferences. However, empirical results reported
in the literature do not justify the preference of one approach above
the other. To investigate whether one of the approaches is superior, or
whether a combination of both is more appropriate, we perform a
canonical correlation analysis for a set of functional motives and a set
of task preferences (N = 2,158). Five distinct relationships (canonical
variate pairs) of motives and preferences are found. Results show that a
‘functional basis’ exists where all motives relate to a basic set of
tasks. Additionally, a more differentiated approach towards volunteer
motives and task preferences has to be taken, as we find four other
relationships where specific motives are satisfied by assigning
particular sets of tasks.

While Article 8 focusses on volunteers, Article 9 (Willems 2014) focuses
on motivational aspects of employees in the nonprofit and public
sectors, compared to the for-profit sector. In this study, I postulate a
complementary consideration to an article of LeRoux and Feeney 2013. The
aim is to provide avenues for further research on employee research in
the public and nonprofit sectors based on an evaluation of the embedded
assumptions on causality and interdependency of the variables used. I
perform an extended empirical analysis of the same data as used in
LeRoux and Feeney (2013) in which inherent assumptions are adjusted
based on available literature. Results show that their conclusions need
nuancing, and that further research could focus on (1) a clearer
distinction between antecedents and effects of sector of employment, and
(2) the different relationships across sectors between work‐related
variables, such as job satisfaction, job flexibility, or job clarity.

The study in Article 10 (Faulk et al. 2016) investigates whether
nonprofit board connections with other nonprofit organizations and
foundations explain organizational performance in earning foundation
grants. Using a sample of 402 nonprofits and sixty-eight foundations in
a single metropolitan area in the US, we find that greater connectedness
and status interlocks significantly influence organizations’ ability to
acquire resources. Network effects are partially mediated by the number
of past grants received and a nonprofit’s financial characteristics,
including organizational size, fundraising expenses, and financial
health. These findings, while supporting the role of networks in
resource attainment, point to the complex and mutual relationships
between organizational characteristics, network characteristics, and
organizational performance.

Article 11 (Crispeels, Willems, and Scheerlinck 2018) focuses also on
the role of organizational collaborations on performance. Consistent
with popular belief among certain academics, practitioners, and policy
makers, we hypothesize that collaboration between private and public
organizations promotes success. We test this hypothesis for data on
clinical trial success. Contrary to this popular belief, our results do
not support the beneficial effect of within- and cross-sector
collaborations. In contrast, we find that trials from single private
companies are four times more likely to be successful than are trials in
which public and private organizations collaborate. Hence, our results
indicate that companies engage with public partners to mitigate
development risks, not to exchange knowledge or technologies with them

References
==========

Austin, James, Howard Stevenson, and Jane Wei‐Skillern. 2006. “Social
and Commercial Entrepreneurship: Same, Different, or Both?”
*Entrepreneurship: Theory and Practice* 1 (1): 1–22.
doi:[10.1111/j.1540-6520.2006.00107.x](https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-6520.2006.00107.x).

Balser, Deborah, and John McClusky. 2005. “Managing Stakeholder
Relationships and Nonprofit Organization Effectiveness.” *Nonprofit
Management & Leadership* 15 (3): 295–315.
doi:[10.1002/nml.70](https://doi.org/10.1002/nml.70).

Brooks, Arthur C. 2003. “Do Government Subsidies to Nonprofits Crowd Out
Donations or Donors?” *Public Finance Review* 31: 166.
doi:[10.1177/1091142102250328](https://doi.org/10.1177/1091142102250328).

Callen, Jeffrey L. 1994. “Money Donations, Volunteering and
Organizational Efficiency.” *The Journal of Productivity Analysis* 5
(3): 215–28.

Coleman Selden, and Jessica E. Sowa. 2004. “Testing a Multi-Dimensional
Model of Organizational Performance: Prospects and Problems.” *Journal
of Public Administration Research and Theory* 14 (3): 395–416.

Cornforth, Chris. 2011. “Nonprofit Governance Research: Limitations of
the Focus on Boards and Suggestions for New Directions.” *Nonprofit and
Voluntary Sector Quarterly* 41 (6): 1116–35.
doi:[10.1177/0899764011427959](https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764011427959).

Crispeels, Thomas, Jurgen Willems, and Ilse Scheerlinck. 2018.
“Public-Private Collaborations in Drug Development: Boosting Innovation
or Alleviating Risk?” *Public Management Review* 20 (2): 273–93.
doi:[10.1080/14719037.2017.1302247](https://doi.org/10.1080/14719037.2017.1302247).

Faulk, Lewis, Jurgen Willems, Jasmine McGinnis Johnson, and Amanda J.
Stewart. 2016. “Network Connections and Competitively Awarded Funding:
The Impacts of Board Network Structures and Status Interlocks on
Nonprofit Organizations’ Foundation Grant Acquisition.” *Public
Management Review* 18 (10): 1425–55.
doi:[10.1080/14719037.2015.1112421](https://doi.org/10.1080/14719037.2015.1112421).

Fombrun, Charles, and Mark Shanley. 1990. “What’s in a Name? Reputation
Building and Corporate Strategy.” *Academy of Management Journal* 33
(2): 233–58. doi:[10.2307/256324](https://doi.org/10.2307/256324).

Foster, William Landes, Peter Kim, and Barbara Christiansen. 2009. “Ten
Nonprofit Funding Models.” *Stanford Social Innovation Review*, –.

Hansmann, Henry. 1987. “Economic Theories of Nonprofit Organizations,”
27–42.

Herman, Robert D., and David O. Renz. 1999. “Theses on Nonprofit
Organizational Effectiveness.” *Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector
Quarterly* 28 (2): 107–26.
doi:[10.1177/0899764099282001](https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764099282001).

———. 2008. “Advancing Nonprofit Organizational Effectiveness Research
and Theory: Nine Theses.” *Nonprofit Management & Leadership* 18 (4):
399–415. doi:[10.1002/nml.195](https://doi.org/10.1002/nml.195).

House, Robert, Mansour Javidan, Paul Hanges, and Peter Dorfman. 2002.
“Understanding Cultures and Implicit Leadership Theories Across the
Globe: An Introduction to Project Globe.” *Journal of World Business* 37
(1): 3–10.

Jun, Kyu-Nahm, and Ellen Shiau. 2012. “How Are We Doing? A Multiple
Constituency Approach to Civic Association Effectiveness.” *Nonprofit
and Voluntary Sector Quarterly* 41 (4): 632–55.

Lecy, Jesse D., Hans Peter Schmitz, and Haley Swedlund. 2012.
“Non-Governmental and Not-for-Profit Organizational Effectiveness: A
Modern Synthesis.” *Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and
Nonprofit Organizations* 23 (2): 434–57.

LeRoux, Kelly, and Mary K. Feeney. 2013. “Factors Attracting Individuals
to Nonprofit Management over Public and Private Sector Management.”
*Nonprofit Management and Leadership* 24 (1): 43–62.

Morris, Michael H., Susan Coombes, Minet Schindehutte, and Jeffrey
Allen. 2007. “Antecedents and Outcomes of Entrepreneurial and Market
Orientations in a Non-Profit Context: Theoretical and Empirical
Insights,” –.

Parker, Lee D. 2007. “Boardroom Strategizing in Professional
Associations: Processual and Institutional Perspectives.” *Journal of
Management Studies* 44 (8): 1454–80.

Rindova, Violina P., Ian O. Williamson, Antoaneta P, Petkova, and Joy
Marie Sever. 2006. “Celebrity Firms: The Social Construction of Market
Popularity.” *Academy of Management Review* 31 (1): 50–71.

Rindova, Violina P., Ian O. Williamson, Antoaneta P. Petkova, and Joy
Marie Sever. 2005. “Being Good or Being Known: An Empirical Examination
of the Dimensions, Antecedents, and Consequences of Organizational
Reputation.” *Academy of Management Journal* 48 (6): 1033–49.

Sowa, Jessica E., Sally Coleman Selden, and Jodi R. Sandfort. 2004. “No
Longer Unmeasurable? A Multidimensional Integrated Model of Nonprofit
Organizational Effectiveness.” *Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector
Quarterly* 33 (4): 711–28.
doi:[10.1177/0899764004269146](https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764004269146).

Valéau, Patrick, Jurgen Willems, and Hassan Parak. 2016. “The Effect of
Attitudinal and Behavioral Commitment on the Internal Assessment of
Organizational Effectiveness: A Multilevel Analysis.” *Voluntas:
International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations* 27 (6):
2913–36.
doi:[10.1007/s11266-016-9703-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11266-016-9703-6).

Willems, Jurgen. 2014. “Antecedents or Effects of Being a Manager in the
Nonprofit, Public or Private Sector.” *Nonprofit Management &
Leadership* 25 (2): 183–89.

———. 2015. “Individual Perceptions on the Participant and Societal
Functionality of Non-Formal Education for Youth: Explaining Differences
Across Countries Based on the Human Development Index.” *International
Journal of Educational Development* 44: 11–20.
doi:[10.1016/j.ijedudev.2015.07.003](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijedudev.2015.07.003).

———. 2016a. “Building Shared Mental Models of Organizational
Effectiveness in Leadership Teams Through Team Member Exchange Quality.”
*Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Quarterly*, –.
doi:[10.1177/0899764015601244](https://doi.org/10.1177/0899764015601244 ).

———. 2016b. “Organizational Crisis Resistance: Examining Leadership
Mental Models of Necessary Practices to Resist Crises and the Role of
Organizational Context.” *Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary
and Nonprofit Organizations* 27 (6): 2807–32.
doi:[10.1007/s11266–016-9753-9](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11266–016-9753-9).

Willems, Jurgen, and Stefan Ingerfurth. 2018. “The Quality Perception
Gap Between Employees and Patients in Hospitals.” *Health Care
Management Review* 43 (2): 157–67.
doi:[10.1097/HMR.0000000000000137](https://doi.org/10.1097/HMR.0000000000000137).

Willems, Jurgen, and Marlene Walk. 2013. “Assigning Volunteer Tasks: The
Relation Between Task Preferences and Functional Motives of Youth
Volunteers.” *Children and Youth Services Review* 35 (6): 1030–40.
doi:[10.1016/j.childyouth.2013.03.010](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.childyouth.2013.03.010).

Willems, Jurgen, Fredrik O. Andersson, Marc Jegers, and David O. Renz.
2017. “A Coalition Perspective on Nonprofit Governance Quality:
Analyzing Dimensions of Influence in an Exploratory Comparative Case
Analysis.” *Voluntas: International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit
Organizations* 28 (4): 1422–47.
doi:[10.1007/s11266-016-9683-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11266-016-9683-6).

Willems, Jurgen, Silke Boenigk, and Marc Jegers. 2014. “Seven Trade-Offs
in Measuring Nonprofit Performance and Effectiveness.” *Voluntas:
International Journal of Voluntary and Nonprofit Organizations* 25 (6):
1648–70.
doi:[10.1007/s11266-014-9446-1](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11266-014-9446-1).

Willems, Jurgen, Marc Jegers, and Lewis Faulk. 2016. “Organizational
Effectiveness Reputation in the Nonprofit Sector.” *Public Performance
and Management Review* 39 (2): 476–97.
doi:[10.1080/15309576.2015.1108802](https://doi.org/10.1080/15309576.2015.1108802).
